- [Instructor] Ever wonder how
to test a hard problem, like caching?
We use the cache, to protect the database
or to avoid cost-intensive calculations.
And spring provides an abstraction layer,
for implementing a cache.
But how do we ensure,
that our cache is really working as expected?
What we need is to ensure in cases,
when we are retrieving the same student from our service,
we want to verify we are not hitting the database,
every single time.
We will start, by creating a new test class.
And we will call it Student Cache Test.
Let's create new test method,
and name it, Gets Students By ID,
for multiple requests, is retrieved from cache.
In the given part, we will create some random student ID.
We need to inject student service in our test,
and in the Web part, simulate,
multiple requests to the service layer,
by calling Gets Students By ID,
multiple times for the same student ID.
Since we need to test interaction with a repository,
this means, we need the kind
of way to check how many times,
our database has been called.
What we need is a Mock.
As a mocking framework, we'll use Mockito,
since it's well-rounded ,well established
and well integrated into spring boot.
With Mockito Extension Unit Test,
we can use Mock and Spy ,to define mocked objects,
and on the tested class at Inject Mock.
Mockito will then try to instantiate fields,
annotated with inject mocks by passing all the mocks
in Togo structure or by using Setter Injection.
However, there are times,
when we have to rely on spring boot,
to set up an application context for us,
because it would be too much work ,
to instantiate classes manually.
And we want to have full benefit from Spring contexts,
such as dependency injection or infrastructure support,
such as caching or data access.
We may not want to test integration
between all the beans in a certain test.
So we need a way to replace certain spring beans
with a mock.
For example, we may depend on remote service,
that is unavailable doing development.
Mocking is also useful,
when we want to simulate ,
failures that might be hard to trigger,
in a real environment.
Spring Boot provides, the Mock Bean and Spy Bean,
annotations for this purpose.
The Spring Boot test support,
will then automatically create a Mock or a Spy,
and then edits to the application context,
So we can then use Mockito given,
when methods to mock behavior
or verify interactions with our bean.
Since we need to rely on spring,
to give us caching support,
we will use spring boot test notation
and insulate ourselves from web environment,
by adding web environment equals none.
In order to verify interactions,
we cannot use a real Bean.
We need mock one.
Therefore we will inject student repository,
with mock bean annotation.
In the given part, we need to mock out,
student repository dot find by ID behavior,
as this is called from students service.
Let's use BDDMockito method ,
given for student repository dot find by ID call ,
for student ID, we'll return optional, of type student.
In the Den part, we will use the method from
BDDMockito library, to verify
that find by ID was called only once.
Quito, gives us times method,
to assert how many times the method has been called.
Then, student repository should times one,
meaning called only once,
called method Find by ID.
Let's run our test.
Why did it fail?
It fails since we haven't added cache in support.
We can do that easily,
by annotating gets students by ID method ,
with Cacheable, with cache key, set to students.
And by adding ,enable caching annotation ,
to the spring boot application ,
to use Embedded Spring Cache.
When we rerun our test, now it should pass.
And there you go,
you've just mastered Integration Testing For Spring Cache.